Welcome back. I'll now show
you the cost function
for the soft-max.
You'll understand why it's as
a cost function and you'll
see why you are learning it.
You basically have to predict
one of the possible words.
In order for you to be able to
predict one of these
V possible words,
you need to minimize a
certain cost function.
In this video, you'll understand
what cost function you are
minimizing and why
you are doing that.
So let's take a look.
Consider a machine
learning model,
a single training example
made of an input and
a true target and the value
predicted by the model
based on the input.
It has a loss function which
measures the error between
the prediction and the true value
for a single input
training example.
With the continuous
bag-of-words model,
for a set of inputs
context words
represented by vector x,
for which the actual value is
the vector y that represents
the actual central word,
the prediction is
the vector y hat.
The objective of the
learning process is to find
the parameters that minimize
the loss given the
training data sets.
In the case of the continuous
bag-of-words model,
the parameters being adjusted
by the learning process
are the weighting
matrices W_1 and W_2,
and also the bias
vectors b_1 and b_2.
The loss-function you'll be
using is the cross-entropy loss.
I won't get into the theory.
You should just know that
the cross-entropy
loss function is
often used with
classification models,
which often go hand in hand with
the softmax output layer
in neural networks,
just like the one
you are using in
the continuous
bag-of-words model.
If you've already worked
with logistic regression,
you probably already know
a simple form of the
cross-entropy loss function,
also known as log loss,
when there are just two classes.
With the notation I used for
the continuous
bag-of-words model,
the formula for
cross-entropy loss for
a training example is J
equals the negative of
the sum over k from 1 to v of
y_k times the log of y
hat k. As an example,
consider the input context
words I am because I,
where the actual
central word is, happy.
The corresponding
vector is this vector y
with a one in the row
corresponding to the word happy.
The prediction could
be this vector y hat.
As the largest value is in
the row corresponding
to the word happy,
this vector would
be interpreted as
predicting happy as
the central word,
which is the correct
prediction in this case.
So let's calculate the
cross entropy loss.
The log of y hat is this vector,
multiplying each element by
the corresponding element
of y gives us this vector.
I'm using the circle dot to
denote element y's
multiplication.
Note, there is only
one non-zero value,
which is negative 0.49.
The sum is therefore,
this value and the loss is
minus the sum, so 0.49.
Now, what if the
prediction was wrong?
Say that the predicted
that vector was 0.96,
0.01, 0.01, 0.01, predicting
"am" instead of happy.
The log would be this
vector multiplying element
y's by y would give
us this vector.
Then the sum is negative 4.61,
and the loss is
negative one times
this, so positive 4.61.
So you can see that the loss is
larger when the
prediction is incorrect.
More generally, the
cross-entropy loss
boils down to negative
one times the log of the value of
the prediction
element corresponding
to the actual central word.
So if you plot the cross-entropy
loss as a function of
the value of the prediction
for the actual central word,
you can see that if the
model is predicting
correctly with a y hat
value closer to one,
then your loss will
be closer to zero.
This is because log of
one is equal to zero.
If on the other hand the model
is predicting incorrectly,
then your y hat for
the actual word will
be closer to zero,
resulting in a high loss value.
The reason for this is that
the limits of log x as
x approaches zero
is minus infinity.
So for the loss,
which uses negative
one times the log,
as y hat approaches zero,
the loss approaches
positive infinity.
So the loss is rewarding
correct predictions and
penalizing incorrect predictions.